# Translating Sonic Pi

[![Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/sonic-pi/-/svg-badge.svg)](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/sonic-pi/)

(This document is meant for translators who want to help bring Sonic Pi 
to their language. If you're contributing code to Sonic Pi, please read 
the primer to the [Translation Workflow](TRANSLATION-WORKFLOW.md) to 
learn about the inner workings of i18n in your code.)

Sonic Pi is designed to be used by school kids as early as primary 
school. We want to make sure that it's usable outside the 
English-speaking world and if you want to help kids in your community 
to be able to play with it, please consider translating Sonic Pi to 
your language.

A number of awesome contributors have already translated much of Sonic 
Pi to their language. We always appreciate help by those willing to 
proofread, spellcheck or update the existing translations. 

Thanks to everybody involved!

As Sonic Pi development moves fast, there are always updates to the 
screen messages and the tutorial. To help translators keep track of 
these changes, _we are currently moving to 
*[Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/sonic-pi/)*_, an 
open-source web-based translation editor.

The nice thing about Weblate is that you don't need to be a developer 
to help translate Sonic Pi.

## What you can translate

* The *Sonic Pi Qt GUI* is the application you use on your desktop
  screen. It contains few message strings and translating it is fairly 
  easy.

* The *Tutorial* is a fairly long document. Translating it requires
  significantly more effort, but it's very rewarding as it is a 
  step-by-step introduction for new users to Sonic Pi.

* (The *Reference* cannot be translated - yet. We're working on that.)

## How to fix or contribute a translation

So if you want to...

- proofread an existing translation
- correct a mistake in a translation
- translate to a whole new language

...all you need to do is visit [Sonic Pi on 
Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/sonic-pi/), sign up and 
follow the instructions there.

_Please note_ that we are still in the process of moving to Weblate. 
You can already translate the Qt GUI there, but the tutorial will 
follow soon.

Weblate gives you a number of helpful tools, e.g. it spots common 
mistakes and you can keep a glossary of recurring terms that you can 
share with other translators.

We can't thank you enough for putting up with the inconvenience of 
translating Sonic Pi, but allow me to ask you for one more giant 
favour: If you want to help keep the translation up-to-date in the 
future, please consider [subscribing to the Sonic Pi project on 
Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/profile/#subscriptions) so 
that you will be informed of new or changed strings.

## How to fix the original English texts

You cannot change the original English strings with Weblate. If you 
spot a mistake in the English texts, please [file an 
issue](https://github.com/samaaron/sonic-pi/issues) or correct it with 
a pull request here on github. Thanks!
